>> Jem Young: So
I previously have taught about IP tables,
which are ways of routing, blocking, or
denying requests to certain
ports over certain protocols.
But they're really onerous.
And if you can't tell here,
it's not a very friendly syntax.
Fortunately the kind people at the Open
Software Foundation and Ubuntu and
Linux, and just the good citizens of
the Internet, created something a little
bit more lightweight called ufw,
the uncomplicated firewall.
If you can't tell, this uncomplicated
firewall will be much less complicated.
And again, a firewall just controls
the access to these ports and
who can get in and out of your computer.
>> Jem Young: And unlike IP tables,
ufw has a much simpler syntax for
basic services.
So if I want to deny say
HPS I can say ufw deny HPS.
And it's much easier to reason about when
you're think about on a surface level
rather than a port level.
And I don't have to be like,
I don't have to think,
I want to block all TCP
traffic to port 4430.
No, I can just say UFW deny HPS, and
it's gonna block all traffic to port 443.
So right now it's not running.
So let's get it up and
running because you know what I want?
I want to close port 3000, yes.
>> Speaker 2: What's the difference
between deny and reject?
>> Jem Young: Great question.
I wonder if I cover that later?
If not, I'll cover right now.
So deny is,
I'm trying to remember the difference.
Deny black holes requests, okay,
it doesn't respond to requests.
So if I'm trying to get into port, I don't
know, 47, I can just ping that port or
try to access it, it'll just hang,
it'll just hang and hang.
But internally I've already
dropped that request.
I didn't do anything about it, but I won't
respond explicitly that port is closed.
Reject says, hey, this port is closed,
and it sends a packet back to the server.
The difference is sometimes you wanna
be explicit about telling people that
the port is closed, or something
like you're using the wrong port, or
you're trying to access the wrong server.
You wanna be a good citizen to
the people trying to use your service.
Other times you wanna black hole them and
not let them tell them anything
about what's happening.
You don't know if that port's open or if
it's just taking a long time to respond or
anything.
Generally you always wanna black hole
requests, unless you have a specific case
when you wanna tell people that the
service that you're trying to access is
incorrect or the parameters are invalid or
something like that.
Great question though, I'm surprised
they didn't put it in there, and
I could have it backwards,
wait, no, deny or reject, yes.
A lot like the example we gave
earlier when we're trying to ping
frontendmasters.com and
it just hangs and hangs.
That's a good way of kind of,
I'll say slowing down attackers.
I don't wanna say deny attackers
because they'll get around that.
But it's good way of kind of eating
resources cuz every time they try to
connect to a service that just black
holes them, it just hangs and hangs and
it eats their computer resources,
it kind of slows down their port crawling.
Versus reject which is explicitly
saying you're not allowed to do that.
Great question though.
>> Jem Young: So ufw's installed but
it may not be running,
but let's check it out.
So sudo ufw status,
>> Jem Young: It's inactive.
So I'm gonna say sudo ufw start,
should do it.
It does not enable.
I always do that.
sudo ufw enable.
>> Jem Young: And this may interrupt
my existing SSH connection,
so we're just gonna say yes.
>> Jem Young: And we're good.
I'll say this for you ufw, again,
when you start getting into security and
IP tables and routing,
ufw's a little bit easier.
But you can absolutely lock
yourself out of the server.
If I close port 22, which is my SSH port,
I have no way of getting into the server
at that point and I'm locked out,
so be very careful.
ufw's okay, you're probably not
gonna do anything too bad, but
if you start rejecting SSH requests or
black holeing them in,
you'll be in a world of hurt cuz there's
no way to get in the server that point
because the port is closed,
it's literally locked up somewhere.
>> Jem Young: But
we allowed SSH, so we're okay.
So let's run ufw status
again to see what's open.
So sudo ufw status should be up and
running, and it's running.
>> Jem Young: And let's find the command
to show me what is the routes
they're running,
what's your firewall status?
Let's say status verbose.
>> Jem Young: Nothing, so
right now we're still okay because we
didn't lock ourselves out completely.
But I'm just gonna make sure I had
a rule for this, so sudo ufw allow ssh.
Now when I do go up, we see that
we added a rule for SSH for now.
It stays open because
when you turn on ufw,
by default it's not gonna block your SSH
port because they know that if you enabled
it when you're on your server you get
kicked out and then you locked out.
Fortunately, there are people that they
try to make things a little bit easier
for you.
We want to enable a few other things,
or actually, sorry,
we didn't actually enable it.
Or no, we did already enable it.
Well I wanna allow a few other things,
so I wanna allow HTTP.
So sudo ufw allow htp, and
you grant status again,
and we see the status of our firewall.
This is a much, much,
much friendlier syntax than IP tables.
[LAUGH] I don't know if any of you have
ever done anything with IP tables,
but they are not friendly at all,
and they make sense once you kind
of understand the syntax and
what's happening.
But ufw is just a nice wrapper,
a clean wrapper around IP tables.
>> Jem Young: Yeah,
that's just showing status, yes.
>> Speaker 3: We're gonna allow HTTPS and
then use Nginx to redirect all
the HTTP traffic to HTTPS?
>> Jem Young: Yes, you're jumping ahead.
[LAUGH] No, it's okay.
We will eventually, we're gonna open
the HTTPS port, so that's port 443,
when we turn on HTTPS.
And that'll happen a little bit later.
So using ufw without it looking it up,
how would I create
a rule to block all HTTP
connections if I wanted to?
It's not a trick?
>> Jem Young: Anybody,
don't make me call on you.
>> Speaker 4: ufw reject?
>> Jem Young: Yeah, reject what?
>> Speaker 4: HTTP.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, nothing to it.
And that's why it's called
the uncomplicated firewall.
It just simplifies your firewall and
it makes it really easy to
understand what's happening.
>> Jem Young: sudo reject http, nice.